# Job-application-
Job application  with django

URL Uniform Resource Locator. The address that the user enters in the
browser to REQUEST a particular resource.

1. project folder urls.py

    urlpatterns = [
    path("admin/", admin.site.urls), #auto generated by django.
    path("", hello),    #newly created path - a function must added for this new path
]

        The path("", hello) needs a function added in the project urls.py or in a seperate views.py convention is to create this file in the app folder. the corresponding function (view) should be created in the views.py file in the app folder as well. 

        *note the "" should have no space or the url will not load. 


2. create urls.py file in app folder. 
3. from django.urls import path
4. in views.py create the corresponding functon for the above url path. 

    ~note python knows to check this based on logic functionality in the settings.py
    file (see ROOT_URLCONF = "jobapp_project.urls")

5. from django.http import HttpResponse needs to be added to the views.py file.
6. the function must now be imported into our urls.py file
    1. from . import views (we use . instead of the folder name "app: b/c the url file in 
       in the same folder as the views file)
    2. or from app.views import hello (ctrl space for a shortcut import)
        you will need to import each new created function(view) if method
        2 is used. 

        path("", view.<function_name>) santzx will be used for 
        method 1
           

7. in project urls.py file 
    add import include (from django.urls import path, include)
    update path("", include("app.urls"))

8. Our home page url is now set up. 


    URL's defined --> Views defined(function) --> logic within the function displayed

    User -> Django -> URL -> view -> template or model if model -> data



DYNAMIC URLS

1. we update our function(view) to take in a second parameter e.g below "id"
def job_detail(request, id):
    return HttpResponse("Job detail page")

2. we update our url path to accept the seond parameter
    path("job/<id>",views.job_detail) **note the syntax


Returning multiple jobs

1. create two list. 
    job_title = [
    "First Job",
    "Second Job"
]


job_description = [
    "First job description",
    "Second job description"
]


2. update function (view) logic

def job_detail(request, id):
    return_html = f"<h1>{job_title[int(id)]}</h1> <h3>{job_description[int(id)]}"

    return HttpResponse(return_html)



PATH Converters
1. instead of typcasing the int method on our id in our function (see above)

2. in our urls.py file we specifiy the id as an int. 
    path("job/<ind:id>",views.job_detail)

3. we can now removed the typcasted int method in our function. 

    def job_detail(request, id):
    return_html = f"<h1>{job_title[id]}</h1> <h3>{job_description[id]}"

    return HttpResponse(return_html)


    Different types of path converters Django offers
    
    1. int matches 0 or any + integer & returns an int value to the view

    2. str django default type as with python.

    3. slug matches any slug string.  slugs are url short labels for specific
        content. it only contains letters, numbers, underscores or hyphens. 

    4. uuid special field to store universally unique idenfifiers



REQUESTS:
    message sent by client to server. 

    Types:
GET request used to get resources from the server.
    ~ are only used to read data not change it

POST request used to create resources in the server.
    ~if you need to create a new resource, a post request will be used. 
    
PUT request used to update existing resource that already exist on the server.

Delete request used to delete existing resource on server. 

STATUS codes typically seen. 
100  informational
200 request was successful
300 redirection further action is needed to complete request
400 error on client side. 
500 server related errors


REDIRECTS
      django has a built in redirect function which accepts one parameter (a url) 
      to redirect.  

      redirect needs to be imported.
        from django.shortcuts import redirect  



Accessing other URLs in an application
    django has a reverse() built in function to handle this. 
    This function will take in two parameters. 
        ~ a url name which will be a unique identifier that you are allowed to give your urls in urls.py
        ~ arguements that the function might need

        example of reverse() redirecting clients to the home page

            def job_list(request):
            """"will iterate over job_title[] and display each job on the home page"""
            list_of_job = "<ul>"
            for j in job_title:
                job_id = job_title.index(j) #the index of j is being saved as job_id then its passed as a url below
                detail_url = (reverse("jobs_detail", args=(job_id,)))
                list_of_job += f"<li><a href='{detail_url}'>{j}</a></li>" #<a href'job/{job_id}'></a> is a hyperlink
            list_of_job += "</ul>"
            return HttpResponse(list_of_job)



Error handling

    wrap function in try/except

    def job_detail(request, id):

        try:
            if id == 0:
                return redirect(reverse("jobs_home"))  #this will redirect the user to the home screen. 
            return_html = f"<h1>{job_title[id]}</h1> <h3>{job_description[id]}"
            return HttpResponse(return_html)
        except:
            return HttpResponseNotFound("Not found")  #use Httpresponsenotfound to bring up a 400 error. 










